I have assembled this small circuit
board on the breadboard.
We are going to discuss it later in
detail, and now let’s just look what
we have here.
This is a resistive light sensor, which
includes of a photo resistor and
a regular 10 kOhm resistor.
Together they make up a voltage divider.
It is connected to the power source of
the microcontroller and the A0 analog
input.
Now let’s see how we can read data
from this sensor.
Let’s open the Arduino environment
and click on the templates we had
already seen before.
We need a template from the Basics
section here, which is called
AnalogReadSerial, it’s the very first one.
Without yet looking at it, we need to
check if we have the right board
connected,
and the right port selected. Let’s
now download the controller.
Let me remind you that, if you want
everything to work without the need
to change the program,
your sensor should be connected to
the A0 port.
Now that the sketch has been
downloaded,
we need to find another thing in the
Arduino environment – the Port
Monitor.
You can access it via “Tools” menu
in the “Monitor” section
or the serial port or just press
this button on the upper bar.
A window has opened where we can see
some numbers running on the screen.
Let’s figure out what this is.
I will now be alternating the brightness
of the sensor by covering it with my
hand and uncovering it again,
so if you look at the numbers on the
screen, you will see them change.
within the range of 110-320.
With the help of this simple experiment,
we have found out that
the brightness of the sensor is somehow
converted into some numeric value.
We are now going to see in detail
how this works.